# Facial-Recognition-using-AI-ML
Most of the institutions have manual process of managing the functionalities inside an institution, such as taking attendance, entering of marks, maintaining years of records, etc. For example, the time taken to take attendance for a class will eat up quarter of the teacher’s time. Later, if needed to track or analyse someone’s attendance or the student wants to know his/her attendance percentage on that particular day, it is difficult to go through each record.    If there are upcoming important events or activities taking place, they need to display it on the notice board, which most of the students go unnoticed.    If a student is unable to attend an important test though willing to attend, but they aren’t able to until and unless they are physically present inside the institution.    Teacher is considered as one of the most difficult profession. They need to manage their own life, study their subjects, teach the students and if that isn’t enough, they have to manage and update each and every record of a student, records of a class and even a whole department. This is a strenuous and hectic amount of work which has to be done.    More importantly, it is important for any institution to keep the teacherticular student, a group of students or a whole class, it has to be reached faster and it is necesrs and students connected round the clock. If any information needs to be sent to a pasary that each required student receives it. On the other side, if a student wants to share or suggest something to other students or teachers, they need an easy medium to do it. The power of social engineering needs to be exploited.    Hence, it is necessary to overcome all these problems which are taking place in most of the institutions till date. It is required to bring up an effective and easy-to-go method to integrate all these factors into a single application which makes the functioning of an institution digitised with the works done in just few clicks and keeping track of the institution data right from the lower level to the higher level.    Existing Solution:    There are certain applications which allow teachers to take attendance of a class. But even these applications take equal time as consumed by the manual process on a paper, since the applications too requires marking for each and every student in their application. Attendance through biometrics too exists, but this also becomes inefficient if it is required to take attendance for each every period. There is no effective method till date which can take attendance in a quick span of time through any constraints.    There exist applications to share information among one another such as the social media applications, whatsapp, messenger, etc. But these platforms are generalised media applications which can be used to send or receive any kind of information (junk data) which are even not required. There is no specific application for any institution which can be used to share data (text, audio, video, etc) only which is required and is specific to that particular institution.    There exist web applications for an institution to maintain the data or process flow of an institution. But it does not incorporate each and every module of an institution such as taking attendance on-the-go, tracking and sharing of information anytime anywhere, generating reports for each particular date, month or year and allowing a medium to enable the teachers and students to remain in contact with each other round the clock.  
